E609 Angel Ornaments for Personalizing
copyright 2017 Criswell Embroidery & Design

GENERAL STITCHING INSTRUCTIONS
We caution against changing the size of these designs. Lace designs require precise stitch placement and lengths, and changing the size could destroy the integrity and/or appearance of the lace.

STABILIZER
For all designs in this collection, use two layers of film-type heavy-weight water-soluble stabilizer, such as Badgemaster or Ultra Solvy. These are freestanding lace, stitched on the stabilizer only, no fabric.

THREAD & NEEDLE
All designs in this collection should be stitched with or 40-wt. rayon or polyester embroidery thread. Needle and bobbin thread should be the same. Use a size 70/11 or 75/11 embroidery needle.

TENSIONS
Experimentation is important. Bobbin tension should be loose enough to create balanced tension. Otherwise, the bobbin thread may pull away from the top thread. The top thread should lie directly on top of the bobbin thread, with neither thread pulling toward the inside of curves, or looking loose or loopy.

DESIGN LIST
E609a -- small, one-color
E609a2c -- small, two-color
E609b -- medium, one-color
E609b2c -- medium, two-color
E609c -- large, one-color
E609c2c -- large, two-color

STITCHING INSTRUCTIONS
Hoop two layers of heavy-weight water soluble stabilizer and stitch. These designs provide a space for personalizing with date, name, or other word or phrase. Use your software or machine so that the added type will stitch last.

REMOVING STABILIZER
Clip (don't tear) away the excess stabilizer. Place the design in a container of water and let soak for at least an hour, then rinse. Soak again in fresh water. Do this at least once more, after which soaking overnight is the best way to ensure that all stabilizer is removed. You won't be able to judge the softness of the lace until it is completely dry. When lace is dry, it should be very soft, clean and pliable. If any stickiness or stiffness remain, the stabilizer has not been completely removed.

NOTE: After soaking, designs should be laid flat to dry. After they are dry, steam-press lightly with the design face-down on a pressing surface, and use a press cloth on top.

Thank you for purchasing Criswell designs! We truly appreciate your business.

And many, many thanks to our indispensable testers.


Happy Stitching!!!

